# Version 3.0.0

### Highlights

**Generate HTML diff report**

The command line options `--diff <file> <file>` can be used to create an HTML diff report between two JarHC reports.

**Support custom Maven repositories**

The command line options `--repository-url`, `--repository-username`, and `--repository-password` can be used to configure a custom Maven repository other than Maven Central.

**New report section: JAR Manifests**

List information extracted from `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF` files.

**New report section: OSGi Bundles**

Lists information about OSGi bundles found on the classpath.

### Other changes

**Application**

* The fat/uber JAR `jarhc-<version>-with-deps.jar` has been renamed to `jarhc-<version>-app.jar`.
* The command line option `--sort-rows` is no longer supported. Table rows are now always sorted alphabetically.
* The command line options `--remove-version` and `--use-artifact-name` are no longer supported.
* The short command line options `-v`, `-h`, `-r`, `-cp`, `-t`, `-s`, and `-o` have been deprecated.
* JarHC can load properties from `~/.jarhc.properties` and `./jarhc.properties`.
* Artifact collections can be used to group and reuse a list of Maven coordinates.

**Report**

* Merge sections "Packages" and "Class Versions" into "JAR Files".
* "Dependencies" is now the second section after "JAR Files".
* Merge section "JAR Dependencies" into "Dependencies".
* Rename section "Modules" to "JPMS Modules".
* "JAR Manifests", "JPMS Modules", and "OSGi Bundles" have been moved to the end.
* Rename first column from "JAR file" to "Artifact".
* Show artifact name instead of JAR file name in first column.
* If Maven coordinates are unknown, try to guess artifact name and version from JAR file name.

**JAR Files**

* Add new column "Version" with artifact version number.
* Add new column "Source" with file name or artifact coordinates given as command line argument.
* Rename column "Artifact coordinates" to "Coordinates".
* If there are multiple artifacts with the same checksum, include them all in column "Coordinates". Prefer artifact coordinates given as command line argument.

**Dependencies**

* Add column "Updates" with information about available updates for artifacts.
* Prefer artifact coordinates given as command line argument.

**Binary Compatibility**

* Validate "Main-Class" and "Class-Path" manifest attributes.

**HTML report**

* Create HTML links to Maven Central for artifact coordinates.
* Highlight code-like text with a different color.

**JSON report**

* Support reports in JSON format.

**Code**

* Migrate from Maven Aether to Maven Artifact Resolver.
